---
hide:
 - navigation
---
<!DOCTYPE html>
#
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8">
</head>

<body>
  <p>
  <i class="footer">This page was last updated on 2024-08-05 14:39:48 UTC</i>
  </p>
  
  <div class="note info" onclick="startIntro()">
    <p>
      <button type="button" class="buttons">
        <div style="display: flex; align-items: center;">
        Click here for a quick intro of the page! <i class="material-icons">help</i>
        </div>
      </button>
    </p>
  </div>

  <p>
  <h3 data-intro='Recommendations for the article'>
    Recommendations for the article <i>EcDNA hubs drive cooperative intermolecular oncogene expression</i>
  </h3>
  <table id="table1" class="display wrap" style="width:100%">
  <thead>
    <tr>
        <th data-intro='Click to view the abstract (if available)'>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/ Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th data-intro='Highest h-index among the authors'>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    
        <tr id="The Hi-C technique has been shown to be a promising method to detect structural variations (SVs) in human genomes. However, algorithms that can use Hi-C data for a full-range SV detection have been severely lacking. Current methods can only identify interchromosomal translocations and long-range intrachromosomal SVs (>1 Mb) at less-than-optimal resolution. Therefore, we develop EagleC, a framework that combines deep-learning and ensemble-learning strategies to predict a full range of SVs at high resolution. We show that EagleC can uniquely capture a set of fusion genes that are missed by whole-genome sequencing or nanopore. Furthermore, EagleC also effectively captures SVs in other chromatin interaction platforms, such as HiChIP, Chromatin interaction analysis with paired-end tag sequencing (ChIA-PET), and capture Hi-C. We apply EagleC in more than 100 cancer cell lines and primary tumors and identify a valuable set of high-quality SVs. Last, we demonstrate that EagleC can be applied to single-cell Hi-C and used to study the SV heterogeneity in primary tumors.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/37c1dd3757008f0744292fa9bfc0f7c36e71ba63" target='_blank'>EagleC: A deep-learning framework for detecting a full range of structural variations from bulk and single-cell contact maps</a></td>
          <td>
            Xiaotao Wang, Yu Luan, Feng Yue
          </td>
          <td>2022-06-01</td>
          <td>Science Advances</td>
          <td>38</td>
          <td>31</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/cd217dda14bc5faced17ed3b56a0c56548ca85ad" target='_blank'>ATACAmp: a tool for detecting ecDNA/HSRs from bulk and single-cell ATAC-seq data</a></td>
          <td>
            Hansen Cheng, Wenhao Ma, Kun Wang, Han Chu, Guangchao Bao, Yu Liao, Yawen Yuan, Yixiong Gou, Liting Dong, Jian Yang, Haoyang Cai
          </td>
          <td>2023-11-10</td>
          <td>BMC Genomics</td>
          <td>1</td>
          <td>13</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="The relationship between stochastic transcriptional bursts and dynamic 3D chromatin states is not well understood due to poor sensitivity and/or resolution of current chromatin structure-based assays. Consequently, it is not well established if enhancers operate individually and/or in clusters to coordinate gene transcription. In the current study, we introduce Nodewalk, which uniquely combines high sensitivity with high resolution to enable the analysis of chromatin networks in minute input material. The >10,000-fold increase in sensitivity over other many-to-all competing methods uncovered that active chromatin hubs identified in large input material, corresponding to 10 000 cells, flanking the MYC locus are primarily virtual. Thus, the close agreement between chromatin interactomes generated from aliquots corresponding to less than 10 cells with randomly re-sampled interactomes, we find that numerous distal enhancers positioned within flanking topologically associating domains (TADs) converge on MYC in largely mutually exclusive manners. Moreover, when comparing with several enhancer baits, the assignment of the MYC locus as the node with the highest dynamic importance index, indicates that it is MYC targeting its enhancers, rather than vice versa. Dynamic changes in the configuration of the boundary between TADs flanking MYC underlie numerous stochastic encounters with a diverse set of enhancers to depict the plasticity of its transcriptional regulation. Such an arrangement might increase the fitness of the cancer cell by increasing the probability of MYC transcription in response to a wide range of environmental cues encountered by the cell during the neoplastic process.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/ba5fe3c509191f9735e82e52b1aaba363144242c" target='_blank'>The ultra-sensitive Nodewalk technique identifies stochastic from virtual, population-based enhancer hubs regulating MYC in 3D: Implications for the fitness of cancer cells</a></td>
          <td>
            Noriyuki Sumida, E. Sifakis, Barbara A. Scholz, Alejandro Fernandez-Woodbridge, N. Kiani, D. Gómez-Cabrero, J Peter Svensson, Jesper N. Tegnér, A. Göndör, Rolf Ohlsson
          </td>
          <td>2018-03-27</td>
          <td>bioRxiv</td>
          <td>6</td>
          <td>36</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="The role of extrachromosomal circular DNA (eccDNA) has been highlighted. More recently, eccDNA-chromosome interactions were identified, suggesting a potential role of eccDNA in transcriptional regulation. Several databases currently provide valuable resources for the study of eccDNAs. However, these databases are primarily focused on Human eccDNAs and do not provide analysis of eccDNA-chromosome interaction and eccDNA gene expression in different tissues. Herein, to further integrate available resources for eccDNA data across multiple species, we developed the eccDB database. The current version of eccDB has collected a total of 1,317,182 eccDNAs in 424 samples from four species (homo sapiens, mus musculus, saccharomyces cerevisiae, and arabidopsis thaliana). eccDB provides regulatory and epigenetic information on eccDNA, including typical enhancers, super-enhancers, transcription factors, DNA methylation positions, risk SNPs, expression quantitative trait locus, chromatin accessibility regions, and chromHMM states. In particular, eccDB provides eccDNAs intrachromosomal and interchromosomal interaction analysis to predict the transcriptional regulatory functions of eccDNA. Moreover, eccDB identifies eccDNAs from unknown DNA sequences and analyzes the functional and evolutionary relationships of an eccDNA among different species. Overall, eccDB offers web-based analytical tools and a comprehensive resource for biologists and clinicians to decipher the molecular regulatory mechanisms of eccDNA. eccDB is freely available at http://www.xiejjlab.bio/eccDB">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/e0a342b5e252ecb1e48f975fdd5e8efa46835895" target='_blank'>eccDB: a comprehensive repository for eccDNA-mediated chromatin contacts in multi-species</a></td>
          <td>
            Min Yang, Bo Qiu, Guo-You He, Jianyuan Zhou, Haoming Yu, Yuying Zhang, Yanshang Li, Taisong Li, Jinping Guo, Xuecang Li, Jianjun Xie
          </td>
          <td>2022-09-23</td>
          <td>bioRxiv</td>
          <td>7</td>
          <td>12</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Focal amplifications in the cancer genome, particularly extrachromosomal DNA (ecDNA) amplifications, are emerging as a pivotal event in cancer progression across diverse cancer contexts, presenting a paradigm shift in our understanding of tumor dynamics. Simultaneously, identification of the various modes of focal amplifications is bioinformatically challenging. We present AmpliconSuite, a collection of tools that enables robust identification of focal amplifications from whole-genome sequencing data. AmpliconSuite includes AmpliconSuite- pipeline; utilizing the AmpliconArchitect (AA) method, and AmpliconRepository.org; a community- editable website for the sharing of focal amplification calls. We also describe improvements made to AA since its initial release that improve its accuracy and speed. As a proof of principle, we utilized publicly available pan-cancer datasets encompassing 2,525 tumor samples hosted on AmpliconRepository.org to illustrate important properties of focal amplifications, showing ecDNA has higher copy number, and stronger oncogene enrichment, compared to other classes of focal amplifications. Finally, we illustrate how AmpliconSuite-pipeline enables delineation of the various mechanisms by which ecDNA forms.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/0f3f112dd01867d814b393cd8a3b0372c553a87b" target='_blank'>AmpliconSuite: an end-to-end workflow for analyzing focal amplifications in cancer genomes</a></td>
          <td>
            Jens Luebeck, Edwin Huang, Forrest Kim, T. Liefeld, Bhargavi Dameracharla, Rohil Ahuja, Daniel Schreyer, Gino Prasad, Michał Adamaszek, Rishaan Kenkre, Tushar Agashe, Devika Torvi, Thorin Tabor, M. Giurgiu, Soyeon Kim, Hoon Kim, Peter Bailey, R.G.W. Verhaak, Viraj Deshpande, Michael Reich, Paul S. Mischel, Jill P. Mesirov, V. Bafna
          </td>
          <td>2024-05-10</td>
          <td>bioRxiv</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>69</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/807670030fcdcd4d1e09df57ab926e3510f882f2" target='_blank'>EccBase: A high-quality database for exploration and characterization of extrachromosomal circular DNAs in cancer</a></td>
          <td>
            Haiyang Sun, Xinyi Lu, Lingyun Zou
          </td>
          <td>2023-04-01</td>
          <td>Computational and Structural Biotechnology Journal</td>
          <td>3</td>
          <td>7</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/b270d5828c0c647a81a5f5624151881c87a6d379" target='_blank'>Circlehunter: a tool to identify extrachromosomal circular DNA from ATAC-Seq data</a></td>
          <td>
            Manqiu Yang, Shufan Zhang, Rong Jiang, Shaomu Chen, Moli Huang
          </td>
          <td>2023-05-22</td>
          <td>Oncogenesis</td>
          <td>4</td>
          <td>13</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Extrachromosomal circular DNA (eccDNA) represents a large category of nonmitochondrial and nonplasmid circular extrachromosomal DNA playing an indispensable role in various aspects such as tumorigenesis, immune responses, liquid biopsy, etc. However, characteristic and functions of eccDNA are fragmented, hiding behind abundant literatures and massive whole-genome sequencing (WGS) data, which have not been sufficiently used for identification of eccDNAs. Therefore, establishing an integrated repository portal is essential for identifying and analyzing eccDNAs. Here, we developed eccDNA Atlas (http://lcbb.swjtu.edu.cn/eccDNAatlas), a user-friendly database of eccDNAs that aims to provide a high-quality and integrated resource for browsing, searching and analyzing eccDNAs from multiple species. eccDNA Atlas currently containing 630,434 eccDNAs and 7,774 ecDNAs manually curated from literatures and 1,105 ecDNAs predicted by AmpliconArchitect based on WGS data involved in 66 diseases, 57 tissue and 319 cell lines. The content of each eccDNA entry included multiple aspects such as sequence, disease, function, characteristic, validation strategies, etc. Furthermore, abundant annotations and analyzing utilities were provided to explore existed eccDNAs in eccDNA Atlas or user-defined eccDNAs including oncogenes, typical enhancers, super enhancers, gene expression, survival, and genome visualization. Based on these resources, eccDNA Atlas will significantly improve our understanding of eccDNAs and serve as an important catalyst for future research of eccDNAs.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/e2d20a0db9b1f98cad436777c673672c6524a862" target='_blank'>eccDNA Atlas: a comprehensive resource of eccDNA catalog</a></td>
          <td>
            Tengwei Zhong, Wenqing Wang, Houyan Liu, Mao-Hua Zeng, Xinyu Zhao, Zhiyun Guo
          </td>
          <td>2022-11-08</td>
          <td>bioRxiv</td>
          <td>11</td>
          <td>11</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/b4b286bbab1da64083cdd888aa83729915ef9cc4" target='_blank'>Stratification of TAD boundaries reveals preferential insulation of super-enhancers by strong boundaries</a></td>
          <td>
            Yixiao Gong, C. Lazaris, T. Sakellaropoulos, A. Lozano, P. Kambadur, P. Ntziachristos, I. Aifantis, A. Tsirigos
          </td>
          <td>2018-02-07</td>
          <td>Nature Communications</td>
          <td>112</td>
          <td>86</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Oncogene amplification, a major driver of cancer pathogenicity, is often mediated through focal amplification of genomic segments. Recent results implicate extrachromosomal DNA (ecDNA) as the primary mechanism driving focal copy number amplification (fCNA) - enabling gene amplification, rapid tumor evolution, and the rewiring of regulatory circuitry. Resolving an fCNA’s structure is a first step in deciphering the mechanisms of its genesis and the subsequent biological consequences. Here, we introduce a powerful new computational method, AmpliconReconstructor (AR), for integrating optical mapping (OM) of long DNA fragments (>150kb) with next-generation sequencing (NGS) to resolve fCNAs at single-nucleotide resolution. AR uses an NGS-derived breakpoint graph alongside OM scaffolds to produce high-fidelity reconstructions. After validating performance by extensive simulations, we used AR to reconstruct fCNAs in seven cancer cell lines to reveal the complex architecture of ecDNA, breakage-fusion-bridge cycles, and other complex rearrangements. By distinguishing between chromosomal and extrachromosomal origins, and by reconstructing the rearrangement signatures associated with a given fCNA’s generative mechanism, AR enables a more thorough understanding of the origins of fCNAs, and their functional consequences.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/e28a4561b57e335c34ee371c948fa26b8b381895" target='_blank'>AmpliconReconstructor: Integrated analysis of NGS and optical mapping resolves the complex structures of focal amplifications in cancer</a></td>
          <td>
            Jens Luebeck, C. Coruh, S. R. Dehkordi, Joshua T. Lange, Kristen M. Turner, Viraj Deshpande, Dave A. Pai, Chao Zhang, Utkrisht Rajkumar, Julie A. Law, P. Mischel, V. Bafna
          </td>
          <td>2020-01-23</td>
          <td>bioRxiv</td>
          <td>1</td>
          <td>102</td>
        </tr>
    
  </tbody>
  <tfoot>
    <tr>
        <th>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </tfoot>
  </table>
  </p>

</body>

<script>
var dataTableOptions = {
        initComplete: function () {
        this.api()
            .columns()
            .every(function () {
                let column = this;
 
                // Create select element
                let select = document.createElement('select');
                select.add(new Option(''));
                column.footer().replaceChildren(select);
 
                // Apply listener for user change in value
                select.addEventListener('change', function () {
                    column
                        .search(select.value, {exact: true})
                        .draw();
                });

                // keep the width of the select element same as the column
                select.style.width = '100%';
 
                // Add list of options
                column
                    .data()
                    .unique()
                    .sort()
                    .each(function (d, j) {
                        select.add(new Option(d));
                    });
            });
    },
    scrollX: false,
    scrollCollapse: true,
    paging: true,
    fixedColumns: true,
    columnDefs: [
        {"className": "dt-center", "targets": "_all"},
        // set width for both columns 0 and 1 as 25%
        { width: '5%', targets: 0 },
        { width: '25%', targets: 1 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 2 },
        { width: '10%', targets: 3 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 4 }

      ],
    pageLength: 10,
    layout: {
        topStart: {
            buttons: ['copy', 'csv', 'excel', 'pdf', 'print']
        }
    }
  }
  new DataTable('#table1', dataTableOptions);
  
  var table = $('#table1').DataTable();
  $('#table1 tbody').on('click', 'td:first-child', function () {
    var tr = $(this).closest('tr');
    var row = table.row( tr );

    var rowId = tr.attr('id');
    // alert(rowId);

    if (row.child.isShown()) {
      // This row is already open - close it.
      row.child.hide();
      tr.removeClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i>');
    } else {
      // Open row.
      // row.child('foo').show();
      var content = '<div class="child-row-content"><strong>Abstract:</strong> ' + rowId + '</div>';
      row.child(content).show();
      tr.addClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility</i>');
    }
  });
</script>
<style>
  .child-row-content {
    text-align: justify;
    text-justify: inter-word;
    word-wrap: break-word; /* Ensure long words are broken */
    white-space: normal; /* Ensure text wraps to the next line */
    max-width: 100%; /* Ensure content does not exceed the table width */
    padding: 10px; /* Optional: add some padding for better readability */
    /* font size */
    font-size: small;
  }
</style>
</html>