---
hide:
 - navigation
---
<!DOCTYPE html>
#
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8">
</head>

<body>
  <p>
  <i class="footer">This page was last updated on 2024-08-05 12:46:32 UTC</i>
  </p>
  
  <div class="note info" onclick="startIntro()">
    <p>
      <button type="button" class="buttons">
        <div style="display: flex; align-items: center;">
        Click here for a quick intro of the page! <i class="material-icons">help</i>
        </div>
      </button>
    </p>
  </div>

  <p>
  <h3 data-intro='Recommendations for the article'>
    Recommendations for the article <i>Extrachromosomal DNA in Cancer.</i>
  </h3>
  <table id="table1" class="display wrap" style="width:100%">
  <thead>
    <tr>
        <th data-intro='Click to view the abstract (if available)'>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/ Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th data-intro='Highest h-index among the authors'>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/64d4438021251d9b711c0baeb201445a5a06e8e0" target='_blank'>Methods, bioinformatics tools and databases in ecDNA research: An overview</a></td>
          <td>
            Xinyu Zhao, Huan Zhao, Yupeng Liu, Zhiyun Guo
          </td>
          <td>2023-11-01</td>
          <td>Computers in biology and medicine</td>
          <td>2</td>
          <td>2</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/0edff12604e8d13a7b581bfb7b7624565745ae39" target='_blank'>Machine learning-based extrachromosomal DNA identification in large-scale cohorts reveals its clinical implications in cancer</a></td>
          <td>
            Shixiang Wang, Chen-Yi Wu, M. He, Jia-Xin Yong, Yanxing Chen, Li-Mei Qian, Jin-Ling Zhang, Zhao-Lei Zeng, Rui-Hua Xu, Feng Wang, Qi Zhao
          </td>
          <td>2024-02-19</td>
          <td>Nature Communications</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>22</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Human extrachromosomal circular DNA, or eccDNA, has been the topic of extensive investigation in the last decade due to its prominent regulatory role in the development of disorders including cancer. With the rapid advancement of experimental, sequencing and computational technology, millions of eccDNA records are now accessible. Unfortunately, the literature and databases only provide snippets of this information, preventing us from fully understanding eccDNAs. Researchers frequently struggle with the process of selecting algorithms and tools to examine eccDNAs of interest. To explain the underlying formation mechanisms of the five basic classes of eccDNAs, we categorized their characteristics and functions and summarized eight biogenesis theories. Most significantly, we created a clear procedure to help in the selection of suitable techniques and tools and thoroughly examined the most recent experimental and bioinformatics methodologies and data resources for identifying, measuring and analyzing eccDNA sequences. In conclusion, we highlighted the current obstacles and prospective paths for eccDNA research, specifically discussing their probable uses in molecular diagnostics and clinical prediction, with an emphasis on the potential contribution of novel computational strategies.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/d9aa37feb6fb39004b376ecfc6a5df4bc099002f" target='_blank'>Characterization, biogenesis model, and current bioinformatics of human extrachromosomal circular DNA</a></td>
          <td>
            Lina Zhou, Wenyi Tang, Bo Ye, Lingyun Zou
          </td>
          <td>2024-04-29</td>
          <td>Frontiers in Genetics</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>0</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/b270d5828c0c647a81a5f5624151881c87a6d379" target='_blank'>Circlehunter: a tool to identify extrachromosomal circular DNA from ATAC-Seq data</a></td>
          <td>
            Manqiu Yang, Shufan Zhang, Rong Jiang, Shaomu Chen, Moli Huang
          </td>
          <td>2023-05-22</td>
          <td>Oncogenesis</td>
          <td>4</td>
          <td>13</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Abstract Rapid advances in high-throughput sequencing technologies have led to the discovery of thousands of extrachromosomal circular DNAs (eccDNAs) in the human genome. Loss-of-function experiments are difficult to conduct on circular and linear chromosomes, as they usually overlap. Hence, it is challenging to interpret the molecular functions of eccDNAs. Here, we present CircleBase (http://circlebase.maolab.org), an integrated resource and analysis platform used to curate and interpret eccDNAs in multiple cell types. CircleBase identifies putative functional eccDNAs by incorporating sequencing datasets, computational predictions, and manual annotations. It classifies them into six sections including targeting genes, epigenetic regulations, regulatory elements, chromatin accessibility, chromatin interactions, and genetic variants. The eccDNA targeting and regulatory networks are displayed by informative visualization tools and then prioritized. Functional enrichment analyses revealed that the top-ranked cancer cell eccDNAs were enriched in oncogenic pathways such as the Ras and PI3K-Akt signaling pathways. In contrast, eccDNAs from healthy individuals were not significantly enriched. CircleBase provides a user-friendly interface for searching, browsing, and analyzing eccDNAs in various cell/tissue types. Thus, it is useful to screen for potential functional eccDNAs and interpret their molecular mechanisms in human cancers and other diseases.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/11549f6d4ae6a2335535bd365c4dad50eea05f4a" target='_blank'>CircleBase: an integrated resource and analysis platform for human eccDNAs</a></td>
          <td>
            Xiaolu Zhao, Leisheng Shi, Shasha Ruan, W. Bi, Yifan Chen, Lin Chen, Yifan Liu, Mingkun Li, J. Qiao, Fengbiao Mao
          </td>
          <td>2021-11-18</td>
          <td>Nucleic Acids Research</td>
          <td>9</td>
          <td>22</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Oncogene amplification, a major driver of cancer pathogenicity, is often mediated through focal amplification of genomic segments. Recent results implicate extrachromosomal DNA (ecDNA) as the primary mechanism driving focal copy number amplification (fCNA) - enabling gene amplification, rapid tumor evolution, and the rewiring of regulatory circuitry. Resolving an fCNA’s structure is a first step in deciphering the mechanisms of its genesis and the subsequent biological consequences. Here, we introduce a powerful new computational method, AmpliconReconstructor (AR), for integrating optical mapping (OM) of long DNA fragments (>150kb) with next-generation sequencing (NGS) to resolve fCNAs at single-nucleotide resolution. AR uses an NGS-derived breakpoint graph alongside OM scaffolds to produce high-fidelity reconstructions. After validating performance by extensive simulations, we used AR to reconstruct fCNAs in seven cancer cell lines to reveal the complex architecture of ecDNA, breakage-fusion-bridge cycles, and other complex rearrangements. By distinguishing between chromosomal and extrachromosomal origins, and by reconstructing the rearrangement signatures associated with a given fCNA’s generative mechanism, AR enables a more thorough understanding of the origins of fCNAs, and their functional consequences.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/e28a4561b57e335c34ee371c948fa26b8b381895" target='_blank'>AmpliconReconstructor: Integrated analysis of NGS and optical mapping resolves the complex structures of focal amplifications in cancer</a></td>
          <td>
            Jens Luebeck, C. Coruh, S. R. Dehkordi, Joshua T. Lange, Kristen M. Turner, Viraj Deshpande, Dave A. Pai, Chao Zhang, Utkrisht Rajkumar, Julie A. Law, P. Mischel, V. Bafna
          </td>
          <td>2020-01-23</td>
          <td>bioRxiv</td>
          <td>1</td>
          <td>102</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/807670030fcdcd4d1e09df57ab926e3510f882f2" target='_blank'>EccBase: A high-quality database for exploration and characterization of extrachromosomal circular DNAs in cancer</a></td>
          <td>
            Haiyang Sun, Xinyi Lu, Lingyun Zou
          </td>
          <td>2023-04-01</td>
          <td>Computational and Structural Biotechnology Journal</td>
          <td>3</td>
          <td>7</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Extrachromosomal circular DNA (eccDNA) represents a large category of nonmitochondrial and nonplasmid circular extrachromosomal DNA playing an indispensable role in various aspects such as tumorigenesis, immune responses, liquid biopsy, etc. However, characteristic and functions of eccDNA are fragmented, hiding behind abundant literatures and massive whole-genome sequencing (WGS) data, which have not been sufficiently used for identification of eccDNAs. Therefore, establishing an integrated repository portal is essential for identifying and analyzing eccDNAs. Here, we developed eccDNA Atlas (http://lcbb.swjtu.edu.cn/eccDNAatlas), a user-friendly database of eccDNAs that aims to provide a high-quality and integrated resource for browsing, searching and analyzing eccDNAs from multiple species. eccDNA Atlas currently containing 630,434 eccDNAs and 7,774 ecDNAs manually curated from literatures and 1,105 ecDNAs predicted by AmpliconArchitect based on WGS data involved in 66 diseases, 57 tissue and 319 cell lines. The content of each eccDNA entry included multiple aspects such as sequence, disease, function, characteristic, validation strategies, etc. Furthermore, abundant annotations and analyzing utilities were provided to explore existed eccDNAs in eccDNA Atlas or user-defined eccDNAs including oncogenes, typical enhancers, super enhancers, gene expression, survival, and genome visualization. Based on these resources, eccDNA Atlas will significantly improve our understanding of eccDNAs and serve as an important catalyst for future research of eccDNAs.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/e2d20a0db9b1f98cad436777c673672c6524a862" target='_blank'>eccDNA Atlas: a comprehensive resource of eccDNA catalog</a></td>
          <td>
            Tengwei Zhong, Wenqing Wang, Houyan Liu, Mao-Hua Zeng, Xinyu Zhao, Zhiyun Guo
          </td>
          <td>2022-11-08</td>
          <td>bioRxiv</td>
          <td>11</td>
          <td>11</td>
        </tr>
    
  </tbody>
  <tfoot>
    <tr>
        <th>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </tfoot>
  </table>
  </p>

</body>

<script>
var dataTableOptions = {
        initComplete: function () {
        this.api()
            .columns()
            .every(function () {
                let column = this;
 
                // Create select element
                let select = document.createElement('select');
                select.add(new Option(''));
                column.footer().replaceChildren(select);
 
                // Apply listener for user change in value
                select.addEventListener('change', function () {
                    column
                        .search(select.value, {exact: true})
                        .draw();
                });

                // keep the width of the select element same as the column
                select.style.width = '100%';
 
                // Add list of options
                column
                    .data()
                    .unique()
                    .sort()
                    .each(function (d, j) {
                        select.add(new Option(d));
                    });
            });
    },
    scrollX: false,
    scrollCollapse: true,
    paging: true,
    fixedColumns: true,
    columnDefs: [
        {"className": "dt-center", "targets": "_all"},
        // set width for both columns 0 and 1 as 25%
        { width: '5%', targets: 0 },
        { width: '25%', targets: 1 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 2 },
        { width: '10%', targets: 3 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 4 }

      ],
    pageLength: 10,
    layout: {
        topStart: {
            buttons: ['copy', 'csv', 'excel', 'pdf', 'print']
        }
    }
  }
  new DataTable('#table1', dataTableOptions);
  
  var table = $('#table1').DataTable();
  $('#table1 tbody').on('click', 'td:first-child', function () {
    var tr = $(this).closest('tr');
    var row = table.row( tr );

    var rowId = tr.attr('id');
    // alert(rowId);

    if (row.child.isShown()) {
      // This row is already open - close it.
      row.child.hide();
      tr.removeClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i>');
    } else {
      // Open row.
      // row.child('foo').show();
      var content = '<div class="child-row-content"><strong>Abstract:</strong> ' + rowId + '</div>';
      row.child(content).show();
      tr.addClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility</i>');
    }
  });
</script>
<style>
  .child-row-content {
    text-align: justify;
    text-justify: inter-word;
    word-wrap: break-word; /* Ensure long words are broken */
    white-space: normal; /* Ensure text wraps to the next line */
    max-width: 100%; /* Ensure content does not exceed the table width */
    padding: 10px; /* Optional: add some padding for better readability */
    /* font size */
    font-size: small;
  }
</style>
</html>