---
hide:
 - navigation
---
<!DOCTYPE html>
#
<html lang="en">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8">
</head>

<body>
  <p>
  <i class="footer">This page was last updated on 2024-08-09 11:40:57 UTC</i>
  </p>
  
  <div class="note info" onclick="startIntro()">
    <p>
      <button type="button" class="buttons">
        <div style="display: flex; align-items: center;">
        Click here for a quick intro of the page! <i class="material-icons">help</i>
        </div>
      </button>
    </p>
  </div>

  <p>
  <h3 data-intro='Recommendations for the article'>
    Recommendations for the article <i>Extrachromosomal circular DNA drives oncogenic genome remodeling in neuroblastoma</i>
  </h3>
  <table id="table1" class="display wrap" style="width:100%">
  <thead>
    <tr>
        <th data-intro='Click to view the abstract (if available)'>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/ Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th data-intro='Highest h-index among the authors'>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    
        <tr id="Human extrachromosomal circular DNA, or eccDNA, has been the topic of extensive investigation in the last decade due to its prominent regulatory role in the development of disorders including cancer. With the rapid advancement of experimental, sequencing and computational technology, millions of eccDNA records are now accessible. Unfortunately, the literature and databases only provide snippets of this information, preventing us from fully understanding eccDNAs. Researchers frequently struggle with the process of selecting algorithms and tools to examine eccDNAs of interest. To explain the underlying formation mechanisms of the five basic classes of eccDNAs, we categorized their characteristics and functions and summarized eight biogenesis theories. Most significantly, we created a clear procedure to help in the selection of suitable techniques and tools and thoroughly examined the most recent experimental and bioinformatics methodologies and data resources for identifying, measuring and analyzing eccDNA sequences. In conclusion, we highlighted the current obstacles and prospective paths for eccDNA research, specifically discussing their probable uses in molecular diagnostics and clinical prediction, with an emphasis on the potential contribution of novel computational strategies.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/d9aa37feb6fb39004b376ecfc6a5df4bc099002f" target='_blank'>Characterization, biogenesis model, and current bioinformatics of human extrachromosomal circular DNA</a></td>
          <td>
            Lina Zhou, Wenyi Tang, Bo Ye, Lingyun Zou
          </td>
          <td>2024-04-29</td>
          <td>Frontiers in Genetics</td>
          <td>0</td>
          <td>0</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/b270d5828c0c647a81a5f5624151881c87a6d379" target='_blank'>Circlehunter: a tool to identify extrachromosomal circular DNA from ATAC-Seq data</a></td>
          <td>
            Manqiu Yang, Shufan Zhang, Rong Jiang, Shaomu Chen, Moli Huang
          </td>
          <td>2023-05-22</td>
          <td>Oncogenesis</td>
          <td>4</td>
          <td>13</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Extrachromosomal circular DNA (eccDNA) represents a large category of nonmitochondrial and nonplasmid circular extrachromosomal DNA playing an indispensable role in various aspects such as tumorigenesis, immune responses, liquid biopsy, etc. However, characteristic and functions of eccDNA are fragmented, hiding behind abundant literatures and massive whole-genome sequencing (WGS) data, which have not been sufficiently used for identification of eccDNAs. Therefore, establishing an integrated repository portal is essential for identifying and analyzing eccDNAs. Here, we developed eccDNA Atlas (http://lcbb.swjtu.edu.cn/eccDNAatlas), a user-friendly database of eccDNAs that aims to provide a high-quality and integrated resource for browsing, searching and analyzing eccDNAs from multiple species. eccDNA Atlas currently containing 630,434 eccDNAs and 7,774 ecDNAs manually curated from literatures and 1,105 ecDNAs predicted by AmpliconArchitect based on WGS data involved in 66 diseases, 57 tissue and 319 cell lines. The content of each eccDNA entry included multiple aspects such as sequence, disease, function, characteristic, validation strategies, etc. Furthermore, abundant annotations and analyzing utilities were provided to explore existed eccDNAs in eccDNA Atlas or user-defined eccDNAs including oncogenes, typical enhancers, super enhancers, gene expression, survival, and genome visualization. Based on these resources, eccDNA Atlas will significantly improve our understanding of eccDNAs and serve as an important catalyst for future research of eccDNAs.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/e2d20a0db9b1f98cad436777c673672c6524a862" target='_blank'>eccDNA Atlas: a comprehensive resource of eccDNA catalog</a></td>
          <td>
            Tengwei Zhong, Wenqing Wang, Houyan Liu, Mao-Hua Zeng, Xinyu Zhao, Zhiyun Guo
          </td>
          <td>2022-11-08</td>
          <td>bioRxiv</td>
          <td>11</td>
          <td>11</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Abstract Rapid advances in high-throughput sequencing technologies have led to the discovery of thousands of extrachromosomal circular DNAs (eccDNAs) in the human genome. Loss-of-function experiments are difficult to conduct on circular and linear chromosomes, as they usually overlap. Hence, it is challenging to interpret the molecular functions of eccDNAs. Here, we present CircleBase (http://circlebase.maolab.org), an integrated resource and analysis platform used to curate and interpret eccDNAs in multiple cell types. CircleBase identifies putative functional eccDNAs by incorporating sequencing datasets, computational predictions, and manual annotations. It classifies them into six sections including targeting genes, epigenetic regulations, regulatory elements, chromatin accessibility, chromatin interactions, and genetic variants. The eccDNA targeting and regulatory networks are displayed by informative visualization tools and then prioritized. Functional enrichment analyses revealed that the top-ranked cancer cell eccDNAs were enriched in oncogenic pathways such as the Ras and PI3K-Akt signaling pathways. In contrast, eccDNAs from healthy individuals were not significantly enriched. CircleBase provides a user-friendly interface for searching, browsing, and analyzing eccDNAs in various cell/tissue types. Thus, it is useful to screen for potential functional eccDNAs and interpret their molecular mechanisms in human cancers and other diseases.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/11549f6d4ae6a2335535bd365c4dad50eea05f4a" target='_blank'>CircleBase: an integrated resource and analysis platform for human eccDNAs</a></td>
          <td>
            Xiaolu Zhao, Leisheng Shi, Shasha Ruan, W. Bi, Yifan Chen, Lin Chen, Yifan Liu, Mingkun Li, J. Qiao, Fengbiao Mao
          </td>
          <td>2021-11-18</td>
          <td>Nucleic Acids Research</td>
          <td>9</td>
          <td>22</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/807670030fcdcd4d1e09df57ab926e3510f882f2" target='_blank'>EccBase: A high-quality database for exploration and characterization of extrachromosomal circular DNAs in cancer</a></td>
          <td>
            Haiyang Sun, Xinyi Lu, Lingyun Zou
          </td>
          <td>2023-04-01</td>
          <td>Computational and Structural Biotechnology Journal</td>
          <td>3</td>
          <td>7</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/64d4438021251d9b711c0baeb201445a5a06e8e0" target='_blank'>Methods, bioinformatics tools and databases in ecDNA research: An overview</a></td>
          <td>
            Xinyu Zhao, Huan Zhao, Yupeng Liu, Zhiyun Guo
          </td>
          <td>2023-11-01</td>
          <td>Computers in biology and medicine</td>
          <td>2</td>
          <td>2</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Extrachromosomal circular DNA (eccDNA) of chromosomal origin is found in many eukaryotic species and cell types, including cancer, where eccDNAs with oncogenes drive tumorigenesis. Most studies of eccDNA employ short-read sequencing for their identification. However, short-read sequencing cannot resolve the complexity of genomic repeats, which can lead to missing eccDNA products. Long-read sequencing technologies provide an alternative to constructing complete eccDNA maps. We present a software suite, Construction-based Rolling-circle-amplification for eccDNA Sequence Identification and Location (CReSIL), to identify and characterize eccDNA from long-read sequences. CReSIL's performance in identifying eccDNA, with a minimum F1 score of 0.98, is superior to the other bioinformatic tools based on simulated data. CReSIL provides many useful features for genomic annotation, which can be used to infer eccDNA function and Circos visualization for eccDNA architecture investigation. We demonstrated CReSIL's capability in several long-read sequencing datasets, including datasets enriched for eccDNA and whole genome datasets from cells containing large eccDNA products. In conclusion, the CReSIL suite software is a versatile tool for investigating complex and simple eccDNA in eukaryotic cells.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/e43dae710a7ab871c0a5e73b2e9e0719494763ea" target='_blank'>Correction to: CReSIL: accurate identification of extrachromosomal circular DNA from long-read sequences</a></td>
          <td>
            Visanu Wanchai, P. Jenjaroenpun, Thongpan Leangapichart, Gerard Arrey, Charles M. Burnham, Maria C. Tümmler, J. Delgado-Calle, Birgitte Regenberg, I. Nookaew
          </td>
          <td>2022-10-04</td>
          <td>Briefings in Bioinformatics</td>
          <td>7</td>
          <td>49</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Chromosomal instability (CIN) is pervasive in human tumours and often leads to structural or numerical chromosomal aberrations. Somatic structural variants (SVs) are intimately related to copy number alterations but the two types of variant are often studied independently. In addition, despite numerous studies on detecting various SV patterns, there are still no general quantitative models of SV generation. To address this issue, we develop a computational cell-cycle model for the generation of SVs from end-joining repair and replication after double strand break formation. Our model provides quantitative information on the relationship between breakage fusion bridge cycle, chromothripsis, seismic amplification, and extra-chromosomal circular DNA. Given single-cell whole-genome sequencing data, the model also allows us to infer important parameters in SV generation with Bayesian inference. Our quantitative framework unifies disparate genomic patterns resulted from CIN, provides a null mutational model for SV, and reveals new insights into the impact of genome rearrangement on tumour evolution.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/88d37995794338f9758a7ed6b07381c7a9569203" target='_blank'>Cell-cycle dependent DNA repair and replication unifies patterns of chromosome instability</a></td>
          <td>
            B. Lu, Samuel Winnall, William Cross, C. P. Barnes
          </td>
          <td>2024-01-04</td>
          <td>bioRxiv</td>
          <td>1</td>
          <td>1</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="Abstract Extrachromosomal circular DNA (eccDNA) is currently attracting considerable attention from researchers due to its significant impact on tumor biogenesis. High-throughput sequencing (HTS) methods for eccDNA identification are continually evolving. However, an efficient pipeline for the integrative and comprehensive analysis of eccDNA obtained from HTS data is still lacking. Here, we introduce eccDNA-pipe, an accessible software package that offers a user-friendly pipeline for conducting eccDNA analysis starting from raw sequencing data. This dataset includes data from various sequencing techniques such as whole-genome sequencing (WGS), Circle-seq and Circulome-seq, obtained through short-read sequencing or long-read sequencing. eccDNA-pipe presents a comprehensive solution for both upstream and downstream analysis, encompassing quality control and eccDNA identification in upstream analysis and downstream tasks such as eccDNA length distribution analysis, differential analysis of genes enriched with eccDNA and visualization of eccDNA structures. Notably, eccDNA-pipe automatically generates high-quality publication-ready plots. In summary, eccDNA-pipe provides a comprehensive and user-friendly pipeline for ﻿customized analysis of eccDNA research.">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/a563862ddef8bf6fee481f95a5152b070454a938" target='_blank'>eccDNA-pipe: an integrated pipeline for identification, analysis and visualization of extrachromosomal circular DNA from high-throughput sequencing data</a></td>
          <td>
            Minghao Fang, Jingwen Fang, Songwen Luo, Ke Liu, Qiaoni Yu, Jiaxuan Yang, Youyang Zhou, Zongkai Li, Ruoming Sun, C. Guo, Kun Qu
          </td>
          <td>2024-01-22</td>
          <td>Briefings in Bioinformatics</td>
          <td>1</td>
          <td>11</td>
        </tr>
    
        <tr id="None">
          <td id="tag"><i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i></td>
          <td><a href="https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/011a2249b621cc7d1fcd6a351602cdf74d89acdb" target='_blank'>Starfish infers signatures of complex genomic rearrangements across human cancers</a></td>
          <td>
            Lisui Bao, Xiaoming Zhong, Yang Yang, Lixing Yang
          </td>
          <td>2022-07-14</td>
          <td>Nature Cancer</td>
          <td>19</td>
          <td>44</td>
        </tr>
    
  </tbody>
  <tfoot>
    <tr>
        <th>Abstract</th>
        <th>Title</th>
        <th>Authors</th>
        <th>Publication Date</th>
        <th>Journal/Conference</th>
        <th>Citation count</th>
        <th>Highest h-index</th>
    </tr>
  </tfoot>
  </table>
  </p>

</body>

<script>
var dataTableOptions = {
        initComplete: function () {
        this.api()
            .columns()
            .every(function () {
                let column = this;
 
                // Create select element
                let select = document.createElement('select');
                select.add(new Option(''));
                column.footer().replaceChildren(select);
 
                // Apply listener for user change in value
                select.addEventListener('change', function () {
                    column
                        .search(select.value, {exact: true})
                        .draw();
                });

                // keep the width of the select element same as the column
                select.style.width = '100%';
 
                // Add list of options
                column
                    .data()
                    .unique()
                    .sort()
                    .each(function (d, j) {
                        select.add(new Option(d));
                    });
            });
    },
    scrollX: false,
    scrollCollapse: true,
    paging: true,
    fixedColumns: true,
    columnDefs: [
        {"className": "dt-center", "targets": "_all"},
        // set width for both columns 0 and 1 as 25%
        { width: '5%', targets: 0 },
        { width: '25%', targets: 1 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 2 },
        { width: '10%', targets: 3 },
        { width: '20%', targets: 4 }

      ],
    pageLength: 10,
    layout: {
        topStart: {
            buttons: ['copy', 'csv', 'excel', 'pdf', 'print']
        }
    }
  }
  new DataTable('#table1', dataTableOptions);
  
  var table = $('#table1').DataTable();
  $('#table1 tbody').on('click', 'td:first-child', function () {
    var tr = $(this).closest('tr');
    var row = table.row( tr );

    var rowId = tr.attr('id');
    // alert(rowId);

    if (row.child.isShown()) {
      // This row is already open - close it.
      row.child.hide();
      tr.removeClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility_off</i>');
    } else {
      // Open row.
      // row.child('foo').show();
      var content = '<div class="child-row-content"><strong>Abstract:</strong> ' + rowId + '</div>';
      row.child(content).show();
      tr.addClass('shown');
      tr.find('td:first-child').html('<i class="material-icons">visibility</i>');
    }
  });
</script>
<style>
  .child-row-content {
    text-align: justify;
    text-justify: inter-word;
    word-wrap: break-word; /* Ensure long words are broken */
    white-space: normal; /* Ensure text wraps to the next line */
    max-width: 100%; /* Ensure content does not exceed the table width */
    padding: 10px; /* Optional: add some padding for better readability */
    /* font size */
    font-size: small;
  }
</style>
</html>